Eda assignment report
================
Hamze Omar
3/25/2021

## Abstract

## Introduction

I am Researching about Sedge Wren. Sedge Wren is a bird found in North
America. Sedge Wren is also known as Cistothorus Stellaris. It is a
passerine bird in the family of Troglodytidae mostly found in wet
grasslands and meadows. In this project, I will focus on the Sedge Wren
family on the United States soil. I will create a graphic map or visual
map that shows the characters of this bird, such as its breeding season
from time to time, where they relocate from time to time, etc. These
species are summer breeding. They habitually build their nest as early
as May and continues until late August. I’ll visualize these characters
on the project.

## Methods

### Data Acquisition

First of all, I attempted to download the data, however, it was a large
dataset, which that case would take more space from my laptop, so I did
not have to request access from the original website of eBird. I went on
the MSUM class share website where the instructor uploaded it
(\\msumstudents.mnstate.edu) to minimize the size of the data.Then I
downloaded it. After the download, I read the data into RStudio
(R.version). I also read into RStudio an auk package with bird
observations. I installed a cornel lab of ornithology with all the bird
observations of the dataset using the function
(remote::install\_girhub). I used (gridExtra) package from (Baptiste
Auguie 2017), (lubridate) package from (Garrett Grolemund 2011), (psych)
package from (Revelle, W. 2020), (readr, and dplyr) from (Hadley Wickham
2020) .

## Results

## Discussion

## Literature Cited

Hadley Wickham, Romain François, Lionel Henry and Kirill Müller (2021).
dplyr: A Grammar of Data Manipulation. R package version 1.0.5.
<https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=dplyr>

Garrett Grolemund, Hadley Wickham (2011). Dates and Times Made Easy with
lubridate. Journal of Statistical Software, 40(3), 1-25. URL
<https://www.jstatsoft.org/v40/i03/>.

Revelle, W. (2020) psych: Procedures for Personality and Psychological
Research, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois, USA,
<https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=psych> Version = 2.0.12,.

Hadley Wickham and Jim Hester (2020). readr: Read Rectangular Text Data.
R package version 1.4.0. <https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=readr>

## Websites cited

eBird Basic Dataset. Version: ebd\_relFeb-2018. Cornell Lab of
Ornithology, Ithaca, New York. May 2013.

<https://www2.mnstate.edu/helpdesk/class-share-drive.aspx>
\\msumstudents.mnstate.edu
